my best friend recently had a baby and
when I met him I was in awe of
witnessing this tiny beautiful being
enter into our lives I also had this
realization that he wasn't just entering
our lives he was entering the world this
crazy world that especially now feels so
incredibly challenging I spend a lot of
time in my work talking to people about
who we are who we must be and what our
healing looks like so I mean the first
time I held him I had my pep talk ready
you know I wanted him to know that the
way we find our strengths through our
challenges I wanted him to know that we
can all do something big when we start
small I wanted him to know that each of
us is more resilient than we could ever
imagine so here I am holding little
solonius I looked on at him and it hits
me he's a baby he's not gonna understand
a single word I say to him so instead I
thought it'd probably be a better idea
if I went home and wrote so you know
this this is for grown-ups
but it's also for Thelonious when he's
old enough to read it the world will say
to you be a better person do not be
afraid to say yes start by being a
better listener start by being better at
walking down the street see people say
hello ask how they are doing and listen
to what they say start by being a better
friend a better parent a better child to
your parents a better sibling a better
lover a better partner start by being a
better neighbor meet someone you do not
know and get to know them the world will
say to you what are you gonna do do not
be afraid to say
I know I can't do everything but I can
do something walk into more room saying
I'm here to help become intimate with
generosity give what you can give and do
what you can do give dollars gives sense
give your time give your love give your
heart give your spirit the world will
say to you we need peace find your peace
within hold it sacred bring it with you
everywhere you go
peace cannot be shared or created with
others if we cannot first generate it
within the world we'll say it to you
they are the enemy love enough to know
that just because someone disagrees with
you does not make them your enemy you
may not win an argument you may not
change a mind but if you choose to you
can always achieve the triumph of
radical empathy an understanding of the
heart the world will say to you we need
justice investigate find truth beyond
the stories you are told find truth
beyond the wasting seam ask why ask is
this fair ask how did we get here do
this with compassion do this with
forgiveness learn to forgive others
start by truly learning how to forgive
yourself we are all more than our
mistakes we are all more than who we
were yesterday we are all deserving of
our dignity see yourself and others
recognize that your justice is my
justice and mine is yours there can be
no liberation for one of us if the other
is not free
the world will say it to you
I am violent respond by saying I am NOT
not with my words and not with my
actions the world will say to you we
need to heal the planet start by saying
no thank you I don't need a plastic bag
recycle reuse start by picking up one
piece of trash on your block the world
will say it to you there are too many
problems do not be afraid to be a part
of the solutions start by discussing the
issues we cannot overcome what we ignore
the more we talk about things the more
we see that the issues are connected
because we are connected the world will
say to you we need to end racism start
by healing it in your own family the
world will say it to you how do we speak
to bias and bigotry start by having the
first conversation at your own kitchen
table the world will say to you there is
so much hate devote yourself to love
love yourself so much that you can love
others without barriers and without
judgement when the world asks us big
questions that require big answers we
have two options one to feel so
overwhelmed or unqualified we do nothing
to to start with one small act and
qualify ourselves I am the director of
national security and so are you maybe
no one appointed us and there were no
Senate confirmations but we can secure a
nation when you help just one person to
be more secure a nation is more secure
with just one outstretched hand that
says are you okay I am here for you we
can transform insecurities into security
we find ourselves saying to the world
what should I do
what should we do the better question
might be how am i showing up I ask the
world for peace but do I show up with
peace when I see my family and friends I
ask the world to end hatred but do I
show up with love not only for those I
know but those I don't know do I show up
with love for those whose ideas conflict
with my own I ask the world to end
suffering but do I show up for those who
are suffering on my street corner we say
to the world please change we need
change but how do we show up to change
our own lives how do we show up to
change the lives of the people in our
communities James Baldwin said
everything now we must assume is in our
own hands we have no right to assume
otherwise this has always been true no
one nominated Harriet Tubman to her
purpose to her mission to her courage
she did not say I'm not a congressman or
the President of the United States so
how could I possibly participate in the
fight to abolish a system as big as
slavery she instead spent ten years
making 19 trips freeing 300 people one
group of people at a time think about
the children of those 300 people the
grandchildren the great-grandchildren
and beyond our righteous acts create
immeasurable ripples in the endless
River of justice whether it's Hurricane
Katrina Harvey
Irma or Maria people did not say there
is so much damage what what should I do
they got to work on what they could do
those with boats got in their boats and
started loading in every woman man and
child they came across near and far
people gave their dollars they gave
their cents they gave their hearts they
gave their spirit we spend so much time
thinking we don't have the power to
change the world we forget that the
power to change someone's life is always
in our hands
change making does not
along to one group of people it belongs
to all of us you don't have to wait on
anyone to tell you that you are in this
begin start by doing what you can with
what you've got where you are and in
your own way we don't have to be heroes
wear a uniform call ourselves activists
or get elected to participate we just
have to be brave enough to care now
around the time solonius was born I went
to the birthday party of a man named
Jean Moretti
it was his 100th birthday which means he
lived in the United States through the
depression World War two the struggle
for workers rights the achievement of a
woman's right to vote the civil rights
movement a man on the moon the Vietnam
War in the election of the first black
president I sat with him and I said Jean
you have lived in America for a hundred
years do you have any advice during
these current times he smiled and said
to me simply yes be good to as many
people as possible and as he danced with
my mother who is by the way half his age
in a roomful of generations of his
family and hundreds of people many of
whom traveled thousands of miles to be
there to celebrate him I realized that
he had not just given me advice he had
given me the first step that every
single one of us is capable of making if
we want to create a real wholehearted
impact on the world around us right now
be good to as many people as possible
thank you
[Applause]